let's start with some data on a chart
because it's the data that you all came
here for nobody came to hear me
philosophize hmm if you look at the two
big lines on this chart a huge decline
from vegan gains the orange line going
down down down from over five million
views per month and then there's a
bright yellow line that's rising
unnatural vegan the size of our audience
the size of our views per month
increasing when you look at those two
and then you ask yourself which way is
the trend going for veganism as a whole
the total size of the audience for this
genre of videos are we just gonna say
that vegan gains the artistic direction
he's taken something about the quality
of his videos uniquely has been
unsuccessful or could we look around and
add up the numbers for a survey of major
english-language youtubers and come to
the conclusion that the total size of
the audience is shrinking that the total
level of public interest in this type of
content actually has declined in the
last two years so guys I made an earlier
video that's in black and white just
about 24 hours ago I think that's a much
more politically provocative video I
think it's much more interesting video
than the video I'm about to present you
pet
although this video answers a different
question um in the earlier video I spent
quite some time talking about small and
explicitly political YouTube channels
the discuss veganism vegan activism
getting organized and so on but that
sometimes are reaching just a few
hundred people per video and
nevertheless at that small small scale I
do think that the type of statistics we
have here on YouTube are meaningful
they're meaningful precisely for
hypothesis generation so you're all
throw I'll throw up example here so
we'll go to four videos here on on
screen these are four different people
who presented lectures at the same event
on the same topic it's there was some
kind of conference and these people all
came to talk about veganism and having a
healthy diet and you know this kind of
thing right and even though the numbers
are small right away you notice oh one
of these people is something different
but one of these people is reaching an
audience one of these people has 758
people looking around googling around
trying to find this lecture has some
people who interested in hearing what
she has to say and the others frankly do
not the others are reaching such small
numbers that it could just be their
friends and family or people who were in
the audience who attended this event
when they they get fleshly okay so now
you have a now you have a hypothesis now
you're interested okay there's something
interesting there's something
significant about one person giving this
lecture by the same token I think it is
really meaningful to look at a lot of
the people who were presumed to be the
major leaders in this movement just a
couple of years ago and when you google
around YouTube you find they're getting
under a hundred viewers showing up to
hear a lecture that they've given way
back in the year 2015 there was a
conference called the world vegan summit
in 2016 they met again they had another
another world vegan summer 2017 2018 who
doesn't did not continue now how much
can you read into the failure to develop
that well it's significant if the
problem is with a unique event like that
if we're going to talk about numbers
we're talking about a 1 or a 0 let's try
to move past let's just try to move fast
but ok there used to be this major
international vegan summit okay uh-huh
who presented lectures there well look
it up list of speakers and right here on
YouTube you can look up the speeches
they give 2015 it's not such a change in
history
you can still see exactly what they said
you can hear how the audience reacted
even ok wow it's 2015 world begin summit
2016 world vegan summer
Wow here's this whole
list of famous luminaries some of them
are university professors some of them
are more like religious leaders here are
all these people who are aspiring
activists and community leaders they're
people taking on a leadership role the
heads of different kinds of foundations
and institutes and charities to promote
veganism some of them I guess own
restaurants there's like they're all
coming together and giving lectures and
you know what if you google around and
if you search here within YouTube most
of those people today are not are not
reaching an audience even the numbers on
a small scale there's an important
indication here that you shouldn't
ignore now someone like Gary France
aione mentioned and discussed more my
earlier video on paper he seems like the
most important person in the vegan
movement today
many many times I have made a video on
my own YouTube channel at the same time
that he made a video on the same topic
and I reached a larger audience than he
did like I reached 2,000 people and he
reached fewer than 200 okay so there's a
warning there I mean this is again this
is the use of math for hypothesis
generation we don't just use math to
prove something true or false we use
math to raise new questions in the
social sciences when you notice a
discrepancy in the numbers okay there's
an interesting question to be asked here
Gary Francey on a maybe we just assume
he's a very influential person in
veganism because he's published a lot of
books he has wealth he has status he has
a prestigious sounding job at a
university but you know what when you're
looking around it seems like in the year
2019 almost nobody is interested in
hearing what he has to say so that's
significant it's significant on that
small scale and we're gonna look at this
video is on a large scale when I'm
looking at these two lines the orange
line from vegan gains crashing down and
the yellow line from NASA
being going up okay what if the whole
scene what if the aggregate of all these
YouTube channels combined is coming
downward just like that orange line from
V contains okay it's also just worth
mentioning here the reason why Erin
Janis the pink line is so puny they're
way down at the bottom of the chart has
to do with the fact that we're
calculating the number of views per
month the total number of views on the
YouTube channel for all videos in one
month at these two different periods of
time August 2016 and the most recent
numbers of God in 2019 Erin Janus she
makes a lot of noise in the movement
because she had a couple of hit videos
but those hit videos were several years
ago and the amount she's uploaded since
then has been very little so the actual
size the audience she's reaching is much
smaller than you might expect who has
even heard of family fizz before so this
is the whole button this is the one big
exception to all the rules currently in
family fizz is not just the most
successful vegan YouTube channel they
are one of the most successful YouTube
channels in the history of the internet
and they do talk about veganism they do
promote veganism but it is not the main
thing they do as you can guess from the
name family fizz the vast majority of
their content the vast majority of the
interests in their channel from the
audience has nothing to do with visa so
I thought about excluding them from this
list but I really I really have to
include them they're unbelievably
successful they're so successful that
this chart doesn't make any sense
because you have to change the whole
sense of scale has it go up to 30
million to include family fizz on the
same chart but the rest all the other
channels you see listed here are going
down down down you have a really strong
indication here that the total size of
the market the total level of interest
in the vegan message has been decreasing
in two and a half years so let's do the
math here again for the same chart but
excluding the family fizz and now we can
see these are basically the most
successful english-language channels
you'll see on the charts to come we have
more than this but fun for Louie freely
durianrider and mommy tang all of them
have dropped to below 1 million total
views per month and as you can see some
of them of the past were way up there
above 12 million so this already is a
very significant you know shrinkage in
the size of the market as a whole and I
as we go through more of these examples
you can decide is it really the case
that we just have had one untalented
guitarist after another or is it the
case that the audience has become
fatigued with rock and roll's of genre
that the message of veganism is no
longer new and novel and exciting it's
no it's the effect of watching
slaughterhouse footage is no longer
shocking and the audience has started to
tire of this and move on okay so here's
table 2.1 these people are in the
millions but the smaller millions and
one of the most dramatic changes the
gold color line there is Nina Aranda I
didn't realize you said successful they
were oh yeah funny to think by the way
if you compare the gold line to the blue
line there was a time in 2016 when Nina
and Randa were more popular than peda
they were more popular than people with
the Ethical Treatment of Animals
but alas today that is no longer the
truth even though peda
has been declining and declining in
popularity Nina and Randa have been
declining even more rapidly a very very
modest increase in the size of audience
for cheap lazy vegan and Kayla shoemaker
but you can see again most of the trend
here is down down down ok here are a
bunch of youtubers below 1 million Kat
Von D Bambi Alec manemma frost
Ellen Fisher so we have some growth here
for both Ellen Fisher and Minami frost
you can tell me if you think that
reflects sincere interest in veganism
always an issue who table for people far
below 1 million
it's a sim net nutrition one of my
critics raised this as being supposedly
a really really significant
counterexample the numbers really do not
count for much but yes obviously he's a
very successful youtuber don't get me
wrong so you can see that he's the
bright yellow line
Mike the vegan and orange has also been
very successful but that success doesn't
even compensate for the dramatic decline
a number of yours supreme banana has let
alone people who used to be major voice
in the movement like freely declining
from a high of over 12 million viewers
Mattie limb burner another one of the
big success stories I would assume the
vast majority of her viewers are not
vegan and are not watching the channel
because their interest in veganism but
nevertheless she deserves credit for
promoting the vegan diet and preaching
the vegan message and so to even as that
other channel I mentioned family fizz in
some ways they are a vegan Channel and
in some ways they're not but hey mmm
edgy veg naturally Stephanie Sara
speaking kitchen a little little bit of
success there for Sara's vegan kitchen
but again these numbers compared will
again earlier do not add up too much
okay so let's let's put it all together
here what do we got people what does it
look like yeah it looks like the market
our vegan youtube content has collapsed
if we add up we take the sum of all of
the vegan channels that we have surveyed
here in this video we started at a total
audience of 55 million plus and that has
dropped from more than 55 million to
approximately 19 million so what we're
seeing here is the contraction or the
collapse the size of the market as a
whole and the counter example is this
one bizarrely successful Channel and
their success really has nothing to do
with veganism but still congratulations
to them and I'm happy that they are
vegan and they mentioned that they're
vegan wants them well family fizz alone
has more viewers than all of the other
YouTube channels combined at present in
2019 all the other vegan YouTube
channels that you see listed on the
right hand side of the screen there if
you add up all the people who watch
there
videos in one month it does not equal
that one highly successful channel so
guys keep in mind an individual
guitarist could have a hit song next
year there could be a number one hit
it's a musician playing the guitar and
it's old fashioned rock and roll could
happen however when you look at the
statistics for rock and roll as a genre
as a whole rock and roll as a whole is
becoming less and less successful this
happens different trends come and go in
music different trends come and go in
movies at one time everyone was making
vampire movies even if there's a big hit
movie next is a vampire movie you
recognize that vampire movies are
getting less and less popular so at one
time jazz music was a mainstream pop
culture phenomenon and then the whole
genre the whole size the audience for
jazz shrunk away however for those of us
were sincerely interested in the future
ecology of planet Earth the declining
public interest in the vegan message is
of quite a bit more urgency first of us
to have some degree of sympathy or
compassion for billions of animals
living their whole lives on a concrete
floor under a steel shed being forcibly
inseminated suffering until the day they
die living in captivity
it's brutal it's awful the ecological
consequences are terrible if people have
lost interest in that message over the
last two years it's much more
significant than if the audience loses
interest in jazz music or rock and roll
just to switch to some other kind of
easy